Does anyone share a vision of an intelligent software agent with
planning capabilities that is able to navigate around a computer and
generate plans to accomplish tasks it derives or are delegated by the
users, moving and processing files, reading and understanding their
natural language contents, extracting structured information from
semi-structured sources, acting in meaningful ways as described by
knowledge bases of procedural information, reading man pages, using
perceptual capabilities to guide experimentation with existing
software components to learn pre and post conditions to heighten
capabilities, study documentation, memoize function calls, index
functions, index new software, extract lists of their features,
package that software and wrap it, analyze both the code itself and
the function signatures, derive knowledge bases about their features,
use this in automated programming and program synthesis. This is some
of the more long-term research I am debating embarking on. I know that
such systems already exist, such as are available in ResearchCyc. The
challenge is to make an open source version. One of the ways I am
proceeding is to iterate, via system iterator, over the projects
available from sourceforge that are closest to these capabilities and
communicate with their authors about the need to package and integrate
these systems into a coherent whole. In particular, I am collecting
Prolog and Lisp code, as these are among the highest level systems
currently available, and can more easily be integrated, given that
they are extensible programmable programming languages.

This long term research is not as important as the short term work on
the life planner however, and so, given that unless I am able to
generate a foolproof plan for the future I won't always have as close
to an ideal environment for working on this as I do now. Also, I am
having trouble finding the motivation to work on the longer term stuff
because I keep getting waylaid, which is contributing to a learned
helplessness against sticking my neck out again on these sorts of
projects. However, without these tools, stuff like the Packager system
and the Free Life Planner are going to have practical limits to what
they can achieve, just as the Packager system has failed to fully
automatically package arbitrary software so far.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZTDEOPXAztA
